we've already walked through the process
of how a power supply is made but that
only covers the manufacturing and
assembly of power supplies before the
power supply ever reaches that stage it
can be years of research and development
for one new brand new platform to be
built this process leverages multiple
floors of equipment and teams of
electrical engineers to get everything
right and it's one that we got to see
firsthand with a leading power supply
factory that supplies coolermaster and
several of its competitors in this
factory tour we'll be looking at
radiation testing equipment climate
control that thermal and humidity
chambers wave runners and the Scylla
scopes load generators and more the
equipment in just one of these labs
totals in the hundreds of thousands of
dollars
most of it is industry-leading
technology but we occasionally see old
reliable analog equipment like the
temperature and humidity sensor that
writes to real that one can substitute
for toilet paper in a time of need today
we're touring the Rd facility for power
supplies and learning about how they're
designed before that this video is
brought to you by us and our patreon
page aside from the GN store one of the
best ways to support our high
expenditure on testing quality and
equipment is to join our patreon page
we've been posting weekly
behind-the-scenes videos lately to
update our backers on developments at GN
you can gain access to our patreon
discord videos featuring other team
members and patrons ask GN videos at
patreon.com slash gamers and access the
funding has been going straight into
maintaining our testing quality learn
more at the link in the description
below as stated we previously toured the
manufacturing and mid production testing
of power supplies to cue up that video
or any of the other dozens of factory
tours that we've done in the series
click the factory tour playlist linked
in the description below the first step
of the R&D process comes from the
customer that'd be a company like
Coolermaster EVGA a corsair or any
number of others in the industry just as
examples will keep this section short
cooler masters first step is to define
the spec before approaching this factory
for help internally the company will
discuss the target audience companies
normally look at sales and gauge when
they're starting to dry up for existing
lines or when a competitor might be
pulling sales away and then they'll
figure out the price point on the user
base for the new product this is the
same time when the team might try to
figure out what marketing plays it might
want to make for example a couple years
ago of course there made a huge deal out
of its gallium nitride PFC a small part
that allowed about a two millimeter
length reduction and some very minor
efficiency increases in the total power
supply cooler masters marketing plays
could include things like consideration
of passive or fanless power supplies
advancements in the fan blade passive
thermal solutions that allow reduced
noise or similar iterative steps power
supplies are well defined so to really
get creative the manufacturers might
have to approach the factory and ask for
recommendations on new technology and
even then it's tough to market a power
supply it typically takes Coolermaster
or the other companies about three
months to design the new product its
identity and to outline its spec plus an
additional one to two months to add a
new wattage spec for an existing power
supply we have a lot of footage from
tooling factories that we can show for
this part part of the design process
includes designing the chassis if a
chassis has to be retooled the tooling
can be seven thousand to twenty thousand
dollars per iteration so it's important
to get it right in one go for
perspective tooling for a full computer
case can cost upwards of 1 million
dollars USD but it's typically a few
hundred thousand dollars still much more
expensive than a power spike case which
is relatively simple since it's just a
square in our previous tour of
third-party tool and suppliers in China
last year we captured footage of how
tools are made in industrial machine
shops that are often grungy but very
function first these tools eventually go
into the chassis manufacturing plants
either automated or manual where they'll
make anything from networks which boxes
like at liam lee it's a full-on computer
cases like the cosmos at coolermaster as
for the power supply factory it takes
two to three years on average to
complete a ground-up brand-new platform
for a power supply and get it into
production
most power supplies though take closer
to six to eight months because the
company can iterate on some already
known good topology that it designed to
previously the factory manager told us
that power supplies aren't especially
high-tech and so much of the time is
spent trying to increase efficiency
decrease size or move to simply newer
better components from third-party
suppliers time to move into the R&D
rooms we asked how much of the design
work boiled down to math versus
experience and we were told that it's
math electrical engineering teams are
broken into individuals who specialize
in very low level parts so you might get
someone whose entire job is to
specialize in the Transformers or
someone whose entire job is to work in
signal integrity and so on this all gets
worked out on paper before it ever gets
put down and testing or trial and error
and the first Rd room are greeted with
temperature and humidity chambers that
look familiar
they're used for stress testing
prototypes and they're pretty common
this lab employs 20 people and hosts
about 10 million NTD new Taiwan dollars
and equipment or about 331 thousand
dollars USD for this room alone the
temperature and humidity chambers are
typically run at about 40 degrees
Celsius with humidity at about 65
percent the company uses 40 degrees as
its baseline because it expects the
average system case ambient temperature
will be 40 degrees in our own testing
and we've also found this to be true
these chambers are sometimes tested up
to 95% humidity or as low as 20 to 30%
but it depends on where the power supply
is intended for use some of these are
used for ul certifications while others
are just for research and development
the power supplies that go into the
thermal chambers are manually wired up
with 40 to 100 K type thermocouples
anyone who's ever wired thermocouples
and secured them onto tiny part notice
how absolutely infuriating that would be
it's not easy work it's very slow it's
up close it's skilled labor that
requires knowledge of which parts need
to be logged and it takes forever one
skilled technician here it requires
about 10 hours to wire up the power
supply with thermocouples up to a
hundred k types on the board we had a
chance to watch one of the technicians
doing all the wiring work and we're
somewhat relieved to know that there
really isn't a better way to do this
just like in our lab thermocouples are
wiry they're entangled and they're
difficult to work with once you get past
the first couple cowan points of
measurements include transformers
resistors MOSFETs and capacitors as for
what they're checking the factory
ensures that all the parts run within
the recommended specs set on the
datasheet for the integrated circuit
supplier remember the power supply
factory doesn't make these service mount
devices or the other components that end
up in the power supply they instead
figure out
to use and how to wired it all together
so the power supply factory has to make
sure everything works as designed the
power supply has to be run in this
chamber the thermal chamber for 48 hours
during the dvt stage of development
these are tested for standby high load
PCIe 12 volt and high total load during
the 48 hour period we spotted a water
tank tucked under a desk attached to
this machine by a pipe which is a
jury-rigged solution that is used for
humidity control most tests though stay
at 65 percent humidity as for figuring
out where to put the thermocouples well
a lot of thats done later in the process
which we'll talk about later in this
video
typically involving a thermal camera so
you can get thermographic imaging to
figure out the hot spots to just make
the work a little bit easier but we'll
talk about that more later next to the
thermal chamber is a Croma rack this one
is for chroma 8,000 snps autotest
systems
chroma is a brand name supplier of power
supply load generators and test
equipment and it fills this factories QC
lines as well a chroma 61 604
programmable AC source is used for the
bench looking closely at the model 8000
rack we can see that they're running a
lot of 12 loads alongside a couple of 5
volts and 3.3 volt loads rather than
using a real system using a chroma rig
or a similar competing brand allows for
programs at controlled load generation
for the power supply tunable for each
power supply that comes through the
power module is on the far left of the
model 84 91 chroma rack are 20 amps 500
volt modules for LED driver and delight
testing another service that this
factory provided in the past these racks
also include oscilloscopes thermocouple
readers and WaveRunner or wave surfer
brand devices for logging or analyzing
component performance the thermocouple
readers are wired up again with 40 to
100 probes from the power supplies
internal components then their logs for
data analysis later with 48 hours of
data per device there's potentially
millions of lines of data to align
against load generation ambient
temperature and humidity in the charting
software mounted to a wall is a DDC
panel for a burnin testing room that's
been converted into a warehouse the
burnin room used to be a heat controlled
environment for age simulation and
longevity testing of components it's
adapted though because they need more
storage space the next room has testing
equipment for power supply fans which
aren't made here but are assembled with
the power supply in this location the
fans come from a different supplier and
are tested during the EVT or the
engineering stage before progressing to
the DBT stage this lab uses a tachometer
wired to a data logger but it's not the
kind of laser tag that requires a
sticker the most standard kind instead
it's a sensor and a wire alone that
costs $1,500 and that's before the cost
of the data logger that they're hooked
up to fans are tested for the RPM range
so that speeds and noise targets can be
complied with later in development the
industry standard for fan rpm variants
is plus or minus 10% and that's the same
here the next room we went into showed
how low level the testing procedures can
get using a wave surfer 24m xsb
oscilloscope an engineer was testing the
AC side bridge diode for an upcoming
power supply model this test looks at
the inrush spike so technicians wire up
sense lines to the PCB and then turn the
power supply on and off rapidly to
evaluate the inrush on the oscilloscope
depending on the spec defined for the
customer or for the platform as a whole
this stage can help shape early
development as with many other factories
good old Windows XP is used on the
systems for data export and analysis you
don't need anything special to pull data
off of a scope and these machines have
been in service since the lab was set up
with the testing equipment to begin with
and most of them aren't connected to
internet we also saw an X Tech 7450 500
volt amp dielectric analyzer for the
high pot test or a high potential test
it in the factory stage later in the
process which we showed in our previous
video iPod testing is used for a high
amperage and a high voltage test designs
to ensure that the power supply meets
the spec for the product the factory
side tests are for 1,800 volts at 10
milliamps for 1 or 25 amps at a lower
voltage for the other at this stage the
test runs for one minute for initial
design all of this testing every single
thing done in the lab needs to be done
against a known and logged ambient
temperature and humidity this is where
that analog temperature and humidity
sensor comes in the sensor only costs
20,000 NTD or about 660 to
u.s. dollars which is extremely cheap
for lab equipment it's been around for
about a decade now and they've never had
a part fail it uses needles to write
data to a big reel like a seismograph
and with each reel they're able to store
one month of data if anyone has to go
back to figure out what happened with a
weird test result they can unroll it and
look at the analog data as for why
analog the team told us that it's more
reliable and it never needs replacing
digital meters need replacing regularly
or part fixes and this meter never goes
bad it hasn't had defects in the years
and years since it was deployed and all
tests conducted in the lab require a
ambient temperature and humidity log to
make sure they're valid so if you use a
meter that goes bad in the middle of
testing everything done in the lab
during that period would have to be
redone the cost is too high so they just
use analog because it's reliable
although not in use it's kind of fun to
look at some of the reserves of
equipment that this lab has they've got
shelving units full of AC sources load
generators oscilloscopes benchtop power
supplies line leakage testers touch
current testers and other testing
equipment that's either not actively
used anymore or is redundant for
failures the next room had even more
testing equipment this room tests
everything even the tape that's used for
transformer isolation and other tests
when the factory buys equipment like
tape freezing its testing process it
validates that the tape works as the
seller advertises the same happens for
thermocouples it has to make sure they
work and that they're calibrated with
typically an ice bath it seems the
approach is to trust nobody as any bad
link in the chain could cost millions
and damage if product development goes
wrong the test rigs shown here tests the
tape by pinching the tape between two
rods and attempting to pass electricity
through it if anything makes it through
beyond the spec the tape reel fails and
the tape is returned the next table is
more familiar to us these are our test
benches for real-world benchmarking
featuring applications like FIR mark
Unigine Valley Final Fantasies storm
blood of all Thane's and 3dmark
applications these tests are to check
for coil wine and power supplies but
also to check for OCP and other
protections to see that they work as
intended in a real
environment the factory insists that
power supplies shouldn't affect coil
wine coming out of the motherboard the
GPU or other components on the board and
that they only test for power supply
noise if a power supply does exhibit
coil whine which is the result of coils
vibrating with in the inductor shell the
factory can add extra costs and steps by
gluing the coils to stop the
high-frequency vibrations from creating
the irritating noise continuing to the
next floor up we were faced with even
more testing equipment these acrylic
chambers are small thermal test
environments for power supplies there
are a lot less sophisticated than the
others but since the other chambers are
so financially and spatially expensive
and time expensive to use these are
needed to ensure no time restrictions
antastic these chambers are done the
old-fashioned way they use the light
bulbs in the bottom to heat up the
chamber to about 1500 watts these are
used for the EBT or the engineering
stage of development while the more
elaborate chambers are used for the DBT
stage of development these chambers have
been through enough torture that the
acrylic is starting to show signs of age
from the rapid heating and cooling
cycles but they're still useful the
power supply is seated on a shelf inside
of the chamber while a fan at the bottom
is used to simply circulate the air
within the test environment this room is
where most of the engineers involved in
the earliest stages of the pipeline end
up working which is made obvious by the
rows upon rows of bins of small service
mount components it's also in this room
that the engineers help prepare the
thermocouple wiring that's done later by
technicians using thermo graphic imagers
the engineers identify hotspots on the
power supply and then they wire j-type
thermocouple to the hottest spots for
secondary measurements this data is
saved for later stages where the power
supply gets wired for the thermal
chamber that we saw earlier in this
video all the thermocouples and thermal
cameras are calibrated by a special team
that visits on timed intervals we're
told that the equipment in this room is
used to make early changes and decisions
on the design the major components for
consideration are the AC in the bridge
buck capacitors transformers protections
like OCP standby and the PFC and PWM
there are 27 key components total but
this short list is what gets the most
consideration in early stages
that wraps our power supply factory tour
for the R&D lab if you'd like to see the
physical assembly process of the same
factory you can check our factory tour
playlists below you can also watch our
other factory tours like those covering
metalworking case manufacturing and more
thanks for watching subscribe for more
go to store like Aaron's axis top mat or
patreon.com slash gamers Nexus to help
us out directly we need the support
directly from the community to fund
these types of factory tours they are
not cheap adventurers but it's some of
the most unique content you can get on
the subject matter thanks for watching
we'll see you all next time
[Music]